# Quick reference to the BME280

The BME280 is a digital humidity, pressure and temperature sensor from Bosch
Sensortec. It is used in the avionics to measure the altitude and temperature
aboard the rocket.

Here's the [Datasheet](https://www.bosch-sensortec.com/media/boschsensortec/downloads/datasheets/bst-bme280-ds002.pdf)

# Modes of operation

The sensor has 3 modes:
- sleep
- forced
- normal

These modes are selected via the mode register.

Sleep mode has all registers accessible, no operations are performed and
the sensor operates at the lowest possible power consumption. This is the
*default* mode after startup.

Forced mode is used to perform a single measurement, store the result and go
back to sleep mode.

Normal mode is used to continually cycle between performing measurements and
being inactive. This is the mode that should be used in the avionics.

# Measurements

Mesurement results are stored in their respective registers, accessible via
the sensor's serial interface.

## Humidity

The humidity measurement is configured in the `osrs_h[2:0]` setting.
Oversampling is available to redude noise.
The humidity resolution is fixed at 16 bits and the value is unsigned.

## Pressure

The pressure measurement is configured in the `osrs_p[2:0]` setting.
The resolution depends on the usage of the IIR filter and the oversampling
setting:
- if the IIR filter is enabled: the resolution is 20 bits
- if the IIR filter is disabled: the resolution is `16 + osrs_p - 1)`

The value is always unsigned.

## Temperature

The temperature measurement is configured in the `osrs_t[2:0]` setting.
The resolution depends on the IIR filter and the oversampling setting:
- if the IIR filter is enabled: the resolution is 20 bits
- if the IIR filter is disabled: the resolution is `16 + osrs_t - 1)`

The value is always unsigned.

## IIR filter

The IIR filter can be used on the pressure and temperature sensor to smooth
the data measurement. This is useful when short term changes are not desired
in the data acquisition, as they will be filtered. This means the bandwidth of
the output signals is reduced and the resolution of the measuremnts can be
meaningfully improved to 20 bits, since high frequency noise is eliminated.

The filter operates using the following formula:

```
data_filtered = (data_filtered[-1] * (C - 1) + data_adc) / C
```

Where C is the chosen filter coefficient and data_adc the raw data from the
ADC.

# Reading the measuremnts

It is always recommended to burst read all the sensor registers, even for the
disabled measurements, because it is faster than individually addressing the
registers. Obviously, this excludes the case where the unused registers are
out of the burst read address range.

To read temperature, pressure and humidity, the address range is from `0xF7`
to `0xFE`.

When using normal mode, the timing of measurements is not necessarily
synchronized to the readout by the user. The sensor has register shadowing
to prevent this, but it only works if using burst reads.

## Measurement compensation

TODO
